---
layout: page
title: Remote Presentation Procedure for Hybrid Conferences
---


This is the instructions for Remote Presentations at (Insert Meeting Here).

-   Remote presentation will take place through **Restream.io**, an in-browser streaming system.

-   Restream allows us to **connect the in-person auditorium to remote guests** and simultaneously **stream to our remote attendees**.

-   You will need to **test your setup** before the event and may need to run through a few troubleshooting steps if there are issues.

-   Please prepare a talk of the correct length: e.g., 15 mins for full papers and 7 mins for short papers. Presentations that are more than 2 minutes overtime will be cut off to ensure fair use of time.

**You can test the OzCHI Restream Studio through this link: (link TBA)**

-   You can **join the studio at any time**, test your camera and microphone and initiate screen sharing.

-   Nothing will be shown externally unless **a stream administrator enables your video/screen in the live stream**.

-   The studio has a **private chat** for communicating with the stream admin and other guests.

-   We will use the conference slack for Q&A beyond the presentation time.

## Before the conference:

1.  **Restream Studio works best in the Chrome/Chromium/Chrome-based browsers.** We have confirmed that it works using **Firefox**.

2.  Please look over the [recommendations for Restream Guests](https://support.restream.io/en/articles/4200670-recommendations-for-restream-studio-guests) before testing.

3.  You can and should login to the **OzCHI Restream studio at any time** through the link (TBA) to do basic connectivity testing, or use a free account to test Restream Studio.

4.  If you are presenting remotely, you MUST attend a presentation check
    in the days before the conference. Please do steps 1-3 above
    before your check ðŸ™‚.

5.  Sign up for a tech check here: (link TBA)
    If the tech check times don't work for you (e.g., timezone issues), please
    get in touch.

## During the conference:

During the conference please do not join the studio link until your
paper session and do not share this link with others. You can watch
other paper sessions on a separate streaming playback link (available
through conference chat).

1.  You will receive an event-specific restream studio link via email
    well in advance of your session, we will also make the link
    available to you on slack (different link than above).

2.  You should join the Restream Studio link 15 minutes before the start
    of your paper session and test slides/audio as necessary.

3.  A stream manager (name will be "manager") will be present in the
    studio. Say hi over the private chat to announce your presence and
    they will run through technical checks.

4.  You can watch the other talks in the studio.

5.  You will be invited to share your screen/slides 5 minutes before
    your presentation.

6.  During your talk, your slides and camera will be enabled on the
    broadcast view and you can start.

7.  Questions will be sent through private chat or announced live by the
    session chair.

Please be patient and kind when working remotely. We will do our best to
ensure a smooth, fair and high quality experience for everyone but in
any hybrid conference there can be unexpected technical issues ðŸ™‚.

## Length of talks

At the event, talk lengths will be:

-   Full papers: 15 minutes (up to 5 mins for questions)

-   Late Breaking Work: 7 minutes (up to 3 mins for questions)

Your slides will not be visible during question time.

Buffers in-between talks are required to ensure smooth changeovers
between presenters and remote/in-person talks. The following procedure
will occur at the end of remote talks.

-   Remote presenters will have time reminders messaged to them at 2
    minutes and 1 minute before the end of their talk.

-   At the conclusion of your time, the paper chair will appear on
    screen.

-   At 2 minutes over time your talk will be cut off.

## Sharing your screen/presentation:

There are three options for sharing your slides during your
presentation:

1.  Present from a Chrome tab

2.  Present from the powerpoint/keynote/etc application and share your
    screen

3.  Upload your presentation slides directly into Restream.io

Presenting from a Chrome tab is the **best option** as it supports audio
sharing on all platforms. We recommend setting up your presentation tab
in a separate browser window so that you can keep an eye on the restream
window during your talk.

Presenting from **powerpoint/keynote/etc usually works**, but please
test that screen sharing works with your browser. It's usually better to
present from a window rather than full screen (instructions for
[powerpoint](https://office-watch.com/2022/powerpoint-presentations-in-window-not-full-screen/)
and
[keynote](https://support.apple.com/en-au/HT211222#:~:text=Before%20you%20start%20your%20presentation,Window%20or%20Play%20%3E%20In%20Fullscreen.))
so that you can keep an eye on the restream window during your talk.

[Presentations in Studio \| Restream Help Center](https://support.restream.io/en/articles/5984768-presentations-in-studio)

**Uploading** your presentation slides into Restream studio is **most
reliable** (as they put it, it helps escape "technical hell") but does
not support video/audio within slides. See the instructions here:
<https://support.restream.io/en/articles/5984768-presentations-in-studio>

Slides in **PDF format** are recommended for upload into restream.
**Please have a PDF version of your presentation ready as a backup.**

If presenting from a browser tab or screen sharing, you should test your
screen sharing and may need to do some setup:

-   MacOS: you may need to update System Preferences to allow screen
    sharing from your browser. It is important to test this well
    before the presentation and to use the same computer that you
    tested for your presentation.

-   Doesn't work? Try the troubleshooting page:
    <https://support.restream.io/en/articles/6572827-screensharing-feature-troubleshooting>

## Sharing audio/video from your presentation:

If you have videos with audio in your presentation, it's important to
test that audio can be shared. The most reliable option for audio
sharing is to do your presentation from a browser. Here are the
limitations for Restream.io's screen sharing capabilities:

-   Windows: The \'Share Audio\' option is only available for the entire
    screen or browser tab options.

-   MacOS + Linux: The \'Share Audio\' option is only available for the
    entire screen or browser tab options.

-   Uploaded slides into restream.io: Video/Audio **not supported**

Further info:
<https://support.restream.io/en/articles/4341908-restream-studio-screensharing-feature>

## Camera, Mic and Audio Tips:

-   Using headphones during your talk helps improve audio quality
    through your microphone (by reducing echoes/feedback) so this is
    recommended if possible.

-   Setting your camera slightly above your eye level tends to look
    better than if it's looking up at you from below. If you are using
    the camera in your laptop, you could try putting your laptop on a
    stack of books to raise it above your eyes.

-   Having light on your face rather than behind you definitely looks
    better in your presentation.

## Recording:

-   The session videos at ozchi will be streamed through Youtube to
    reach our remote participants.

-   Youtube automatically creates a live replay recording of streams,
    but this will not be publicly released and will be deleted from
    youtube at the conclusion of the conference.

-   The focus during the conference is on live participation and
    engagement.

